Welcome to ACP Planner! The tips have changed in this release. Taking a few seconds to read each tip will pay off in the long run! Once you've seen all of the tips, you'll be able to stop them from appearing at startup. If you don't know where to start, click the link below.|Home.htm

If you only image one target in a night, you can simplify Planner by turning off its timing and visualization features (Disable timing features).|GettingStarted.htm

If you frequently use the same set of image specs (filter, count, binning), you can save these specs as named "presets" and re-use them with one click.|Presets.htm

If you're planning for a remote observatory, you can have Planner upload your plans for you. All you have to do is fill your login information into Planner's Preferences.|GettingStarted.htm

Planner provides you with mouse-wheel control over planetarium time. This makes it easy to put targets into the best sky position bedore capturing them.

Right-clicking in the target list provides access to some of Planner's most useful features. That's how you add new targets to your plan by hand, and edit targets that were previously created or captured.|AddTarget.htm

If you're planning for multiple remote observatories, use Planner's multiple profile feature. Set up the preferences and presets for the observatory, then save them (File, Save Observatory Profile..."). Later, you can quickly switch Planner from one observatory to another before making plans.

If your imager has a field rotator be sure to enable this option in Planner's preferences. It allows you to rotate the FOV indicator and capture targets with rotation angles, and includes the required position angle data in plans.|Rotators.htm

You can create a target from the coordinates of a previously acquired and plate-solved image, allowing more images to be acquired at precisely the same location (and rotation angle) of images you previously acquired.|AddTarget

The start and finish times in the target list are in local time (optionally for a remote observatory), and tell you when that target will be acquired. To set up local time for a remote observatory, enable it in Planner's preferences.|GettingStarted.htm

You can add before-dusk tasks to your plan which will open up your dome/roof and chill your cooler. Click the "Startup: Open & Chill" button below the target list.

The hyperlink "Plan format specs, sample plans, and more" above the target list will open detailed info on ACP observing plans. This can help you to understand the plans generated by Planner, and more importantly, access ACP's more powerful features.

You can import targets from the Data Wizard of Software Bisque's TheSky and have Planner generate a plan for the targets.|ImportSkyData.htm

If you change the image set for a target such that the required time increases, Planner will offer to push subsequent targets out in time to make room ("ripple editing"). If this happens, be sure to roll time back and forth and watch the guide display and make sure the re-timed targets will still be at favorable positions.

You can import mosaics from Software Bisque's TheSky and have Planner generate a plan containing the mosaic images, as well as other targets if you want.|ImportMosaic.htm

If you want to repeat an entire image set multiple times, just change the number in the field "Repeat above image set [  ] times".

You can add dark and bias frames to a plan. Right click in the target list and select Add Cal Frames... 

You can easily change the name of a target in the list by right-clicking on it and selecting Rename. If you capture from an FOV indicator, you should always change the name to something meaningful.

You can import observing lists from Greg Crinklaw's SkyTools and have Planner generate a plan for the SkyTools list.|ImportSkyTools.htm

Make sure that each target in your plan has a unique name. Image files inherit the target name.

Presets give you a way to store frequently used image/filter sets. Once saved as a preset, it can be copied into the image/filter set for a newly added target with a couple of clicks.|Presets.htm

To save your current image set as a preset, click the button "Save as preset".|Presets.htm

You can use ACP Planner without a planetarium by adding targets to the list yourself. You'll have to determine the start time unless you've disabled timing features. For more information on standalone planning, click the link below.|RoutineUseStandalone.htm

You can import observing lists from Greg Crinklaw's SkyTools and have Planner generate a plan for the SkyTools list.|ImportSkyTools.htm

You may have noticed the checkboxes for flat fields. Before using ACP's automatic sky-flat feature, you should learn a bit about how it works. Click the link below for more information.|AutoFlat.htm

If you're using Planner with CCDAutopilot or CCDCommander, you should be aware of some limitations. Click the link below for details.|OtherAuto.htm

If you're an advanced user, you can have Planner generate a custom flat-field plan by scanning your observing plan. The resulting flat-plan will have only those flats needed for the images in your observing plan. For more information click the link below.|FlatPlanning.htm

If you use ACP Scheduler, you can still use ACP Planner! Save your plan as an RTML file instead of text. Then import the resulting RTML into Scheduler. Instead of specifying times, Planner adds horizon constraints so your targets will still be acquired in the desired sky locations.|RTML.htm

